please welcome to the stage Natalie
margolin VP of customer experience at
monday.com super excited to be here and
thank you for joining this
session uh before Deep dive into what I
came to discuss here today I will just
introduce myself H I'm Nellie morol and
I'm the VP customer experience at
monday.com um I'm a proud mom of two
wonderful teenage girls this is a
session of its own a workshop actually
mared to adav love to practice Pilates
and I think it's a safe place to say
that I'm also a royal family Super
Fan as of my career I started at a very
young age not knowing what my future
will be in the biggest Telecom company
uh I built myself there from ground up
this was uh the place where for the
first time I was introduced to the world
of customer experience and fell in love
with this field this is the place where
I learned about hard work and how much
to put the customer as a priority really
brings value to the whole company from
there I moved to a a tech company I had
the opportunity there to face the
challenges of scale and Global and
working in the tech industry with a fuss
Bas and the need to innovate around
customer experience
and in the last two and a half years I'm
very proud to be working in
monday.com which is a hypergrowth
company where as a leader in this
company you have to be always one step
ahead of everything that is
happening so why am I here I'm here
first as a customer I'm sure like all of
you the importance of uh receiving an
amazing customer experience is the
reason we choose company one company
over the other
but also as a leader in this industry I
had that the opportunity to see how this
uh field is evolving how it never ends
how it's changing how you always need to
invest and prioritize the customers in
everything you do and in each company
that I was I made it as a Target to
myself to make sure that the company is
staying focused primarily focused on the
customers and I hope that today I will
be able to share a few strategies and
lesson learned that can help you elevate
the customer experience in your own
companies the road map of the session
today I will speak uh just a bit about
monday.com uh and on the product but not
from the product side more to explain
the context of the challenges leading a
CX organization in a company like
monday.com speak about the CX Journey
that we went through the challenges we
faced with scale the milestones and the
achievements following that the vision
that we have looking forward some key
takeaways and the challenges we have
today so as promised
monday.com iper Growth Company year
over-year 200 plus Industries 200 plus
countries 70% of our customers are not
in the tech industry I'm sharing this
from a CX perspective this is super
challenging this huge scale this variety
of customers coming from different
countries uh from different verticals
for CX organization this is the
challenge with
225k customers and with a robust
platform Monday is very busy in the last
10 years and still is evolving the
platform and getting to a point to have
an endtoend Solutions for multiple
verticals multiple Industries and having
users that can do on the platform
whatever they want they can customize
the platform to their own needs from CX
this is a challenge we got to a point
that our customers know about the
platform and the products more than us
with verticals and products that are
aimed to serve the dev CRM sales
industry
this was new for us at Monday and for us
in
CX so the journey let's
start this I'm sharing from the history
lesson I got from my people this was
before I joined the company but the CX
team was H the pride of Monday for a
very long time with answering 25k
interactions per month with only six
minutes First Response time with 9 plus
five surveys that are sh customers are
sharing their Delight this is and was
amazing those results were the pride of
joy of the entire
company but then scale
happened although it didn't happen in
one day H and it took time it still felt
like this it felt like one day it's a
complet
new company that needs to face
completely new
challenges and things started to go in
the wrong direction increasing volume of
emails with one channel of communication
endless back and forth with our
customers that started to know more
about the platform than our own
people the waiting time got longer
customers started to share that they are
not satisfied and this is
gentle and our people our team members
were overwhelmed feeling like they are
running in circles and no matter what
they're doing they just don't see the
end of
it the most of the focus was how to
manage a
backlog it shifted from answering so
fast to almost not answering at
all this is the time I join and this is
where I was brought in uh for the for
Monday to say customers are in the
Forefront of what we're doing we have to
make
some changes and the challenge that I
faced was to rebuild scx organization to
be able to tackle any scale any shape
and form of scale and I will share with
you the milestones and the journey and
how we did this but if I need to put in
a sentence what guided the solution for
me it was to infuse the talented people
that I found with a new completely new
vision and
Mission even from when I started just
interviewing and getting to know the
company even before joining and through
the on booding it was started to seem
very clear what needs to be done but I
decided to fight this Instinct of just
jumping into and making those changes
that I thought were the right ones and
spend a Time listening really listening
and again I had a road map in my mind
but I'm thinking of two and a half years
ago what was the smartest thing that I
did was this was to pause for a second
and to listen cuz I revealed many things
that have changed things that I
planned who have I listened to and what
have I learned from them so first are
the founders our amazing Founders in
monday.com they told me that nothing
matters than CX and that the situation
that we have today must change and that
the way we communicate with our
customers in one channel which was
emails which I found also shocking in
2022 we have to stop it we have to bring
some live channels back to allow us to
solve issues in One-Stop
shop then in my first week the builders
have jumped on me and said you have to
do something the amount of tickets bugs
that we are receiving from your team is
not allowing us to be available to build
new products and new features
your team doesn't know what to do with
those customers they're transferring and
we have a huge backlog of our own with
things that we believe needs to be
answered in the front
line moving to our team members I met
many of our team members around the
globe and they all shared a huge
frustration frustration that they are
overwhelmed with the amount of knowledge
that they need to be holding
and that they were also hired for a
completely different job they are they
don't know to
troubleshoot problems and bugs they were
hired to provide customer experience
more training and onboarding and using
of the
product then I moved to the
customers I read hundreds of
surveys I heard I I learned by heart
almost hundreds of inter ractions and it
was also very clear from our customers
that they are tired that they are
frustrated that they are in a endless
back and forth with our people on
emails they even a lot of them have
shared that they think we got it wrong
that we are asking too much of them that
we they think we confuse ourself and
they are the team members and not the
customers so so this was the situation
and from there I if I listed the main
challenges that I found from all the
ones that I spoke
with our customers evolved we have
limited
channels our customers are expert they
are very
knowledgeable they are more diverse
they're coming from different Industries
they are coming from different countries
and they are coming a lot of them the
challenge
was the Detachment the department that I
joined felt that what they're doing
they're doing amazingly and there's no
reason to change CU it worked back then
there's no reason for it not to work
now they have struggled with the endless
backlog and focused thems themselves on
internal processes and forgot to listen
to the
customers the organization was flat and
was missing functionalities and
functions we had we didn't there was no
leadership there the organization as
itself was structured in a way that
again was very good to a much lower
scale the frustration that I heard from
our team members from our from the
founders from the
developers and very important piece is
the data there's so much that can be
done with the right infrastructure of
data in the field of customer experience
and because there was a lack of it the
decisions that were made were not based
not on Trends and not on customer
sentiment not on what the customers are
saying there was numbers in the air
there were kpis but it wasn't structured
in any way that you can do something
smart about
it so it was obvious that a different
approach is needed and by different
approach it means that we need to re
realize and recognize and remind
ourselves that the reason we come to
work is for our customers and for our
team members and with this in mind we
need to decide on what to do and this is
the change the huge change in the
mindset of the people and the team
making decisions that are based on what
our customers are looking for and
prioritizing their expectation and their
needs into what we
do this one is an important piece
because it was clear that a lot of
changes needs to happen and changes
people don't like and I will never
succeed in this beautiful Vision I put
in in front of myself if people will
just encounter it as a change but it was
I believed it's really not a change it's
only improvements there's nothing that
we will do in the sake of just trying to
do something different it was all in the
sake of doing it better to improve the
experience both for our customers and
our team
members so we forced ourself to stop
using the word change and every time it
was said somebody from my team have
raised the hand and said it's not a
change it's an improvement and today
we're doing it without even noticing it
became who we are and what we are we are
not changing things and we change many
of the things we're just improving them
it's huge I know it sounds simple but
for a huge organization that we had to
play with changes would never
work so this amazing team that I joined
and the change mindset they were willing
to do and I'm thankful for them so much
for being brave to do that brought us to
write this Mission together and the
mission was to build a service operation
that can handle anything at
scale we are focused to position Monday
as an industry leader in providing
exceptional customer experience it's not
about improving the experience as it was
it's to create an exceptional
one to create a better customer
experience at our current scale and
ready for any future scale this is huge
we didn't look for solution for the
problems of today and yesterday we build
an organization that is capable to fit
any scale that will come and it will
come and it's
coming to be ready for any movement any
fast forward that monday.com will do and
to be able to adjust to it in no time
this what guided the solutions that we
found and constantly to remember that we
are here every day to empower our
customers to achieve their business
goals and utilize the platform for their
own needs in the CX sometimes it feels
like you're doing the same thing and you
forget about it but we are responsible
to remind this to our remind this to our
people people it's their mission it's
why they are
here same goes to our team member we are
so lucky to hire amazing people and
usually at the start of their career we
take it as a responsibility to help them
find this talent that they might not
know they have and to empower them to
accomplish and bring it so the customers
will win from it and monday.com will
have great value
we had a lot of we started to throw
ideas we started to think about what to
do and it's always starting to get
complex so we stopped at that moment and
we said that we need to have guiding
principles everything that we will do
must carry fast simple localized and
empowerment if not we're not doing it
even if it seems like the right thing to
do
so what did we
do I picked four Milestones there were
many more of course and many things we
we tweaked along the way but those are
the biggest ones the first one was
everybody knows everything this was the
I saw the pictures you want to take
them there will it will repeat
itself this is what we found remind you
as I shared at the beginning a robust
platform
multiproduct and a team member that
doesn't know what the hell is going on
anymore and everybody did the same again
in a small scale this kind of an
organization makes sense you hire you on
board and they just learn the platform
but in the place Monday is now and was
already few years ago this doesn't make
sense to expect from a somebody you hire
to know every detail on the platform
every single option on the product on
from day
one so the solution was to develop
expertise and a rearranged
organization this is one way to look at
organization now it's mainly from the
customer flow and journey but I want to
focus on the human product
expert support this is what we made them
be expert expert in a specific area of
the platform building their knowledge as
they go this was much better experience
to our customers that with the help of
smart routing and Automation and I
promise I will talk about AI great
fan we were able to build a a mechanism
that will route the right interaction to
the right person with the right level of
knowledge and our people see a future
they see a growth path they know if they
will be great in what they're doing they
will be able to learn more as they
go another important piece here is the
technical
support we had again one
organization same team member that got
an interaction on how to very simple one
and a second after needed to
troubleshoot a very complex bug on the
system so no more we understood that we
need to build a completely new team that
will work side by side and hire talented
people with a relevant expert on
technical support and immediately we saw
the impact especially the builders that
are not talking to me
anymore and not complaining this team is
capable
to reduce a lot of workload from our
Builders and they are now free to do
what they really need to do and which is
to continue growing the platform and the
capabilities second one one channel of
communication this was the only way
customers could approach monday.com our
customers were looking for many more
ways to contact us and we allow them to
reach us only on emails the email
channel is not suitable to what we do
it's not suitable I think to anything
it's a a huge force of
frustration the it's great to have an
offline mode with our customers but for
our customers it's a poor
experience so the solution was at this
point to just add chats it sounds easy
it's not it's not our team members that
were used to have uh coffee whenever
they want or go to the bathroom as they
need suddenly they cannot do it it's an
online real time there's a real customer
there if I don't know to solve the issue
I'm in big problem
now the moment we opened the chats by
the way we were flooded with chats we
did many things along the way to get
over this but just to show you the Imp
of it we didn't switch from emails to
chats it was important for us to keep
the decision to the customers if they
still want to reach us on emails they
found it exactly next to the
chats but we open the chats we open it
in the platform and our customers
immediately started to adjust and choose
the chats over
emails this as itself affected the
satisfaction again almost immediately
the ability to really resolve a customer
issue on chat is tenic bigger which when
you are with the customer on the same
time in the platform so our customer
Delight our seet started to rise from
this bless
you the fact that we added chats didn't
solve the scale that brought too many
in interactions coming we just moved it
we actually now had even
more we had tons of
interactions customers as you saw the
base got
bigger we are now having chats it's
easier to reach us and we need to do
something about it we needed to make
sure that we are changing the way we
work and we are not basing everything on
humans we need to make our people
available to really bring an added value
and we decided to automate everything
that we can in everything we do for here
what I chose to discuss is the
chatbot so we got to introduce oursel to
the world of email bot and chatbot I'm
not going to speak about the email bot
it's something we are investing in we're
doing it internally and we are looking
on ways to improve it I'm going to speak
about mainly the generative chatbot this
was a game changer almost a day
one we were planning to have a
declarative chatbot realizing that it's
not going to help us in any way we're
going to shift from humans to a bot that
needs a lot of investment from humans
but the generative one at day
one brought 50 % less of chats coming in
solving it with the highest quality we
are investing most of our time today in
this making sure that the quality is
amazing making sure that the bot has
much more capabilities and I will
discuss about this harmonical
relationship we're building with the
humans it allowed us just bringing the
bot in allowed us to improve our
knowledge base all the articles that
were living there for years we never
knew if they are good or not because the
boat is leaning on them we are now
capable of also working and writing
content that is much more suitable to
our customers rather they will take the
boat or not so it's a win from this side
as
well
we have the chatbot with us we invest in
this it
immediately reduce the wait time and we
are proud to answer our customers in
more than 90% of our time in less than
90 seconds on the chats that are
reaching
humans this is
huge the amount of chats that are people
are getting although the chat is now
taking 50% of its own it's still the
same amount and why is that is because
we went to this not in the sake of cost
saving we went to the chatbot in order
to improve customer experience so the
moment we saw that the boat has this
ability we just started to spread the b
in many other places making the CX
humans more accessible nowadays you
don't need to look and search how can I
get to support nowadays the Bel the boat
is
everywhere so the amount of volume is
still the same and the B is taking 50%
this is huge thing that allows us to
really be there for our customers
Whenever Wherever they really need
us the fourth one the last one as I
mentioned it's not about solving the
problems of today it's thinking of the
future and on the in the future we just
need to be one step ahead of everything
that our customers are will look for not
just now so this is what we're decided
to do now is to add AI to everything we
do in every aspect team members
customers data enablement
everywhere we are investing a lot in
learning what is out there investing a
lot in
innovating and making sure that we are
allowing our people to be at their best
because they have everything they need
in order to achieve this Mission there's
a lot that we are doing with AI I'm
going to touch the sentiment
analysis because I I truly believe that
this is the the future of seet there's
no need for seet anymore if you have a
very good objective sentiment analysis
it's endless what you can do with the
power of understanding in every every
given moment what your customer is
really thinking and feeling you can put
the customer in front in the first to be
answered you can put this customer with
a specific group of people that can
retain him if he's a very if the
sentiment is bad you can be proactive
about it you don't need to wait for the
survey that will come at the end of the
interaction it will be too late by the
time you will hear if your customer is
satisfied or not with the sentiment
score that runs in Real Time online all
the time you can do what is right in the
right
moment a second thing that I think is a
game Cher and and I will speak a bit
more on things we implemented but the
automated quality assurance being in
this industry for so long this is one of
the things that keeps me awake at night
not knowing that 100% of the
interactions we have are in a good place
I have hundreds of team members and to
be sure that in every single interaction
they are doing above and beyond to meet
our customers expectation it's something
that you feel sometime as a leader that
is not in a full control and I have a
team of quality assurance and you're
putting your best people to audit those
in
interactions but still it's not 100%
it's still a small percent again taking
you the best people that you have taking
them offline they're not interacting
with customers they're just going
through interactions and giving feedback
to our
people with the right tools you can get
to 100% of the interactions being audit
all the time and only the ones that
needs to be flagged will be flagged to
team leads or whomever needs to take
care of it this is also huge Game
Changer in the field of
CX our people all also are using and and
by the way we're using third uh compan
like other companies we're not uh doing
it from Monday per se not every AI I
things that we're doing we're looking to
do it internally this is something we're
still playing with a few we develop
inside a few we just buy outside and the
ROI is
incredible our people today um going
back to their being to them being
overwhelmed with the amount of knowledge
although they are now in different
squads and they don't need to know
everything at every given moment still
it's a lot still they're multiple use
cases multiple questions that they are
interacting a day and sometimes they
don't know the
answer and they were looking for we have
a knowledge base an internal one we have
slack channels but it's again with scale
it became almost
impossible we brought AI to this and now
they have one place in which they go
they ask the question this AI tool is
searching in every single item of
knowledge that we have doesn't matter
which platform and provides it to them
immediately we are again working on it
being more proactive suggesting the
answer before they are even asking and
there's so much more that we're planning
to do with
that every step we took it was important
to make sure again that we're staying
well connected to our customers we can
constantly imagine what is the best next
thing but we have to stay connected and
this is what we do we are also
responsible in the company to share the
voice of the customers not only on the
experience they have with us but on the
experience they have on the product
ideas that they have problems that they
see we have again now a robust solution
for data infrastructure that can combine
everything that we hear from our
customers we analyze it we act upon it
we transfer it to product to the
developers to whomever needs to know and
do something about it and we see it as
our
responsibility so we achieved a
lot but if I'm forced to put it in four
buckets
we have a better much better way to make
decisions today and we saw that the ones
that we did made an impact made a
change we are having we have an
infrastructure that can support any
scale tomorrow Monday we'll have more
products we will have more squads if
needed it's easy way to
go our people really bring value today
the fact that the bot is taking all the
howto stupid things that we forc them to
do is now allowing them to really invest
time in resolving customers issues and
take it one step ahead something that by
the way we expect them expected from
them always but they could not do it in
the volume that they were
facing and we have very happy employees
our employees now are finding themselves
growth in the department they're finding
themselves matching the expectation that
they had from the job begin with and
they see that they can really
contribute and looking
forward we want to be a market leaders
we have the courage to say it we are
brave to say it and we feel like we're
there but we always look for
more we are in inovative in the world of
CX we are not afraid to try things and
we want to become the market
leaders for this
industry for this year and we are
halfway through to the year we are
looking to De delivering exceptional
customer experience this is what we put
in the front of our people to have we
are investing a lot in this harmonical
Rel relationship between humans and Bots
let's be honest our team members were
afraid and from sometimes there still
are that they will lose their job
because the bot kicks in for us it's
very important to share with them that
vice versa maybe we won't need hundred
of people to hire in the future and we
won't we have a clear our ey on this
because of the chat but but we the
people that we have now we are looking
to make them expert we need them we need
them at their their best we need them to
continue sharing what the boat can do
more they need to fill that they need to
do it they're not afraid to pass on the
feedback on what the boat why doesn't
this interaction got to me if the boat
could have answered we need this from
them they know better than us and we
promise our customers that if they want
a human if the boat failed the human
will be there a second after H they
don't need to B for meeting a human for
us it's immediately some we train the
bot by the way to suggest it even in
cases and we are looking to have our
people expert
professional having the ability to
provide a personalized recommendation to
our customers in again how to utilize
their
platform and it's the challenge it's the
challenge of today
this this pass between the bot and the
human how are people are not ignoring
the entire interaction that took place a
second before how they are not
exhausting the customers Now by asking
the same thing that the bot did how they
just pick it up from
there so to summarize all of this as key
takeaways that I have to share with you
from my experience listen
always translate the expectation into
action
don't jump right into Solutions until
you heard it all from every
angle a vision is best shared again it
was clear to me almost in day one what
the vision needs to be but without
having my amazing team working on that
and feeling a part of it and fully
engaged to this Vision I would never be
here today speaking about the great
success automate automation can make
humans super humans speaking about the
bot speaking about this holistic
experience nowadays automation is not
bad is amazing it's amazing first for
our team members and we made it sure
that they know
that and Innovation a day keeps the
doctor away this world is crazy the
world of customer experience customers
are always surprising with their
expectation and it's changing and it's
evolving and if you keep on doing what
you did yesterday you will just
lose always look for the next best thing
while working on the current one